So as I mentioned before this is not a CSS or a design course, we just need to focus on WordPress
functionality.
So I've written some CSS here as you can see organized into some folders.
So I just want to talk about this organization
little bit in this course. And of course it's up to you if you want to follow my structure or not.
I just felt like I need to talk about my CSS structure and naming conventions, so you can get these SASS folders
from the repository and copy them and just compile in order to save some time.
So the CSS architecture we're using for this project is called the ITCSS or the inverted triangle CSS. And
the idea is to divide your CSS into these layers here, where the higher there will be the most generic
and we have the lowest specificity.
And as we go down our style will become more explicit and will have higher specificity. So you can
read more about that.
I won't go into more details. But let's just break down these layers and see what each one of these will contain.
So we have the
settings layer and this will contain our SASS variables. The global SASS variables that we will use throughout
all of our SASS files like the, you know, fonts and colors and stuff like that.
The second layer is tools and this will be also SASS functions or mixins that we will use throughout
our SASS files. And the generic layer.
And this one will contain, you know, very generic CSS like normalizing CSS across browser, so CSS
presets.
So, you know, just a general global rules. And then we have the elements layer.
And this one is for bare unclassed HTML elements
like the H1 tag without any class or the P tag without any class .
How will they look like?
And then the objects.
And this is for styling non cosmetic design patterns like layouts and grids.
It does not deal with, you know, specific styles for a component just a skeleton or a layout.
And then we have the components.
And this is where we get very specific and start, you know, styling pieces of UI like a widget or a header or
footer stuff like that.
And then finally trumps. And these are layers with the highest specificity. You can use important with that
to override any other style that the element has to, for example text center would force the text aligned
to be center using importance.
So this layer have the highest specificity and it comes last in our pyramid.
So I just wanted to summarize these layers here but you can read more about it.
There's a lot more to read here in this article I will put a link in the lecture links.
I also use the BEM naming convention for CSS.
You might have heard about this but if not I'll put a link to this article.
And I also use what is referred to as name spacing.
So I'll also put a link to this article but to summarize name spacing is just prefixing your CSS classes
with some symbols in order to, you know, signify what type of an element it is. So we just mentioned
that we have our layers here and we said we have, you know, objects and components and trumps.
So these will translate to certain namespaces for our CSS classes.
So for example, "o-" before the CSS class name will signify that this is an object. And "c-" component
and "u-" utility class which are trumps
in our case. And so on.
So if you see that in my code, just you know, refer to this article.
Also we have, if we, if you go to "codex.wordpress.org/CSS"
you'll find some bits of CSS here that you should include in your theme.
So when you create a post and let's say you have an image and you align this image to left or right
WordPress will generate a class in your frontend align right, align left, align center and so on.
And these are not styled by default.
You should add these classes in your style sheets. so WordPress provides you these styles here that you can
use in your theme or modify.
So I did that and I will show you in code.
In fact we can do this now.
So let's see how all what we've discussed will translate in code. So we have folders here and each one of
these folders represent a layer.
So we have the components. You can view one of these like the post components so we have "c-post".
Because it's components and we have the BEM naming convention here as you can see the "__".
So we also have the elements which we mentioned will be just displaying HTML elements without any styles.
So we've the buttons and the inputs and so on.
We also have the generic. The generic layer is the most generic CSS.
So if we have CSS that targets all elements, the "*" and also the normalization.
So here I've installed normalize.css using "npm install normalize.css" and than include it from the
node_modules folder.
And in case you don't know normalize just normalizes the CSS between different browsers because each browser
will have certain default styles. So this library will just make all browsers look the same. And we have
the objects.
So I have my grid system here.
You know some loops and some variables. And the "_wp" is the file that I just mentioned,
this one. I modified some stuff and
I added a SASS makes and converts pixels to rems and you know stuff like that. And the settings which was
the first layer that will have some,
you know, global variables.
And the tools which are global mixins and functions.
So I have some functions here that are borrowed from foundation that converts pixels to rem which is really
useful.
And we have the last layer which is the trumps.
I called it utility here.
So I have some some classes that will add some margin.
And it uses "!important" so it will force that margin to be put in the element. And also some helper functions
like, remember the "screen-reader" class.
Here it is now.
And we have some others that we'll use later.
And also some classes for flex and stuff like that.
And then finally in the bundle, I just add these files in order. So the settings first and then the tools and
then generic and elements and so on.
So that was just a summary of how I organize my CSS. You can totally ignore that and use your own implementation.
I just needed to talk about how I did it.
Let's now change to our theme and run "npm run start" and make sure you have your MAMP server open.
So this is how it looks like now.
In the next lecture we're gonna add some classes from the CSS I just loaded in order to make this look, you know,
much better.
See you in the next lecture.